﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿# SnippetsMarkus GumbelVersion 0.8.x, November 2020#### AbstractSnippets is a tool that supports the presentation and description of programs in documents like presentation, books etc. It aims at teachers who present tons of source code to their audience or authors who write a text book on programming. Snippet can * extract snippets (fragments of a source code) which can be included into a text document. * redirect the console output of a program which can be included into a text document. * record key execution steps and show the protocol in a text document.Snippet follows the _single source_ principle. You do not copy and paste source code or console output - instead the tool does this for you. Currently, snippets works for all programming languages which have single line comments (like // in Java or # in Python). The console output and traces is only possible yet for Java-based languages.## Prerequisites and installationYou need a Java Runtime Environment for Java 8 or higher. Download the jar `file snips-core-0.6.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar` and save it where ever you want.## Snippets### Definition of a snippetIn its simplest form, a snippet is an extract of a source code. Usually, the complete source code of a working example is to long to present it in a listing. Here you may want to create a snippet which highlights the statements you want to explain.Let us consider the following complete Java program in the file `Foo.java`.```public class Foo {  public static void main(String[] args) {    // +IN Slide    int a = 1;    // -IN Slide   System.out.println("Value is " + a);  }}```The statements `+IN` and `-IN` in the comments will create a snippet `Foo_Slide.java` which contains```...    int a = 1;...```The word `Slide` after `+IN` (and `-IN`) indicates a label for this snippet. The tool Snippets simply looks for some keywords in single line commands. You may have noticed that snippets embeds the extract with dots (…) to indicate that not the entire listing is shown.Of course, we can add more snippets and nest them if needed.```public class Foo {  // +IN Slide_main  public static void main(String[] args) {    // +IN Slide_statement    int a = 1;    // -IN Slide_statement   System.out.println("Value is " + a);  }  // -IN Slide_main}```This will create to snippets:1) `Foo_Slide_statement.java````...    int a = 1;...```2)  `Foo_Slide_main.java````...  public static void main(String[] args) {    int a = 1;    System.out.println("Value is " + a);  }...```### Hide statementsSometimes is is useful to hide statements in the snippets. This can be achieved with the `+OUT` and `-OUT` keywords.```public class Foo {  // +IN Slide_main  public static void main(String[] args) {    int a = 1;    // +OUT    // This will be excluded.    System.out.println("Hello Word!");    // -OUT    System.out.println("Value is " + a);  }  // -IN Slide_main}```The snippet `Foo_main.java` still contains```...  public static void main(String[] args) {    int a = 1;    System.out.println("Value is " + a);  }...```Snippet will create the snippets in a specified folder (e. g. `snippets`). Also, snippet will _copy_ all scanned source files to an additional specified folder (e. g. `srcPublic`). Copy means that the source files will not contain any statements which were excluded with the `OUT` option. This is useful if you want to publish your source code but want to exclude several statements. ### Publishing sample solutionsIn a teaching scenario you may want to give your students exercises which contain some source code. However, the solution of the exercise must not be published. There is a snippet option `EXC` (like exercise) which prevents the publication of the solution. `EXC` is similar to `OUT` with the difference that snippet also copies the scanned source files to an additional specified folder (e. g. `srcSolution`) that contains the solutions.As an example let us assume we ask the students to output the value of the var `a` to the console. The following source code will do this:```public class Foo {  public static void main(String[] args) {    int a = 1;    // +OUT    // This will be excluded.    System.out.println("Hello Word!");    // -OUT    // +EXC    // This is the solution:    System.out.println("Value is " + a);    // -EXC  }}```The public folder (`srcPublic`) will contain a file `Foo.java` with the content```public class Foo {  public static void main(String[] args) {    int a = 1;  }}```The sample solution folder (`srcSolution`) will also contain a file `Foo.java` but with the content```public class Foo {  public static void main(String[] args) {    int a = 1;    // This is the solution:    System.out.println("Value is " + a);  }}```Note that the excluded statements (option `OUT`) are always missing.There are situations where the sample solution cannot simply be omitted because then the program would not compile any more. Consider the exercise where we are asked to override the `toString()` method of class `Bar`. This method has a return value and the Java compiler expects to see such a return statement. This solution would not compile:```public class Bar {  public String toString() {    // Please return "Hello from Bar!"    // +EXC    // This is the solution:    return "Hello from Bar!";    // -EXC  }}```The reason is that the public version in `srcPublic` looks like this. ```public class Bar {  public String toString() {     // Please return "Hello from Bar!"  }}```The return statement is missing!We can use a variant of option `EXC` instead. `EXCSUBST` substitutes the hidden block with a single statement.```public class Bar {  public String toString() {    // Please return "Hello from Bar!"    // +EXCSUBST 4 return null; // Not yet completed.    // This is the solution:    return "Hello from Bar!";    // -EXCSUBST  }}```The public version (in `srcPublic`) will then contain```public class Bar {  public String toString() {    // Please return "Hello from Bar!"    return null; // Not yet completed.  }}```which compiles fine. `EXCSUBST` reads the first white space (here `4`) and interprets this as the number of spaces which it will indent the following statement (`return null`). The solution (in `srcSolution`) looks like:```public class Bar {  public String toString() {    // Please return "Hello from Bar!"    // This is the solution:    return "Hello from Bar!";  }}```### Execution#### Publish public source filesThe following example scans all Java files (`*.java`) in the directory `src` and writes the snippets to `snippets`. The single line comment is `//` as Java files are scanned.`java -cp snips-core-0.6.0.jar net.gumbix.codesnippet.SnippetFileCollector src snippets srcPublic .java "//" False`The published source code files are written to `srcPublic`. The option `False` tells snippets not to add the solutions. I. e. any statements within `EXC` or `EXCSUBST` are omitted or substituted.#### Publish solution source filesThe following example scans all Java files (`*.java`) in the directory `src` and writes the snippets to `snippets_solution`. Again, the single line comment is `//` as Java files are scanned.`java -cp snips-core-0.6.0.jar net.gumbix.codesnippet.SnippetFileCollector src snippets_solution srcSolution .java "//" True`The published source code files are written to `srcSolution`. The option `True` tells snippets to add the solutions. I. e. any statements within `EXC` or `EXCSUBST` are included.## Console outputDetails will follow.## TracesDetails will follow.